I love this place. I visit this place (or one of the other din tai fung outlets) at least once a month. 
Must try: xiao long bao, chili crab bun, fried rice with pork, braised beef noodles. 
Highly recommend trying the chili sauce also. This place can get crowded, so i recommend that you get a queue number early. No reservations unfortunately. 
For those who are not familiar with asian food, I recommend that your group orders a number of dishes and shares everything (asian way) rather than each person ordering your own dishes. You will get to try alot more food this way!
This Din Tai Fung is located on the 4th floor next to Japan Food Town. Was there on a Saturday for late lunch. 
The staff at the entrance gave me a number and a paper & pen so I could check what I liked to order while waiting. The wait was not bad at all. Good thing I did not have to stand in line. Think I ever mentioned in my other post, I do not like to stand in line, period! 
Staffs were all friendly and attentive. I like that the restaurant has those bag holders/stands, like those in Taste Paradise, which allow female customers to store their purses or bags. Of cos those at Taste Paradise were a lot better since they came with a flap attached to secure the top. The ones at Din Tai Feng were open bag holders which the staff would just put a cloth over it. Ok I know, I can be so nitpicking.
FOOD 4/5 The legendary xiao long bao (steamed dumplings) were yummy as expected. I also ordered one red bean bun and one meat bun just to try. They were tiny but were good.
AMBIENCE 3/5 It was noisy but I did not expect it to be calm and quiet. It was not a place I would suggest for a first date. More like a place for friends to catch up or family lunch.
STAFFS 5/5 Staffs were attentive, helpful and polite. Water was filled up constantly.
Andrew and I always wondered how Din Tai Fung (DTF) can consistently keep their rich flavour after opening many branches around the world. We visited a few Din Tai Fung restaurants when we were in Singapore and were blown away at their good quality control. At the same time we also thought that we were just lucky... ;-)
Two things that we always ordered in Din Tai Fung were their shrimp & pork shao mai and of course the 18 folds original Xiao Long Bao. DTF's xiao long bao is really in the league of their own. Honestly we never found any broken dumpling skin although I never really counted the number of folds on their dumpling.
The shao mai was also always very delicious with plenty of pork meats inside. I always add vinegar to shao mai and the xiao long bao as I love the additional sour flavour on the meat. Of course the price of their dishes are more than the other Chinese restaurants but the quality never disappoints us.
Delicious dumplings and vegetable dishes. Not too many options for pork allergies. Almost every dumpling has pork alongside the other protein.
Love love love DTF. Go out of my way to visit in other locations when I travel like San Francisco and Seattle. Reasonable price, fast service and great tasting food. They are not known for their customer service, but the food makes up for it. I will never have pork dumplings better than at DTF.
Very good food and efficient service. I came here for the dimsum and was beyond satisfied! Great restaurant. Good baos and great dumplings. Must try if in Singapore!
Gah!  The taro buns from this place still haunt my dreams.  I had no idea how delightful taro could possibly be, but this is over the top.  It's a staple item for me to look for now on every menu of DTF and the second item I order after the soup dumplings.  Din Tai Fung does it to me every time with their perfectly steamed items.  One you understand how to eat the steamed soup dumplings you will look for this place in every city you visit.  The soup dumplings are absolutely incredible, but there are a few surprise dishes that are nearly as impressive.  The fried rice is absolutely delightful and there is a rice dish for dessert that looks like it has some melted jelly beans in it, but I promise you is incredible.  The service is always prompt and efficient and the value for the quality you receive is impeccable.
Couldn't decide what to eat, and stumbled on DTF.  I've had such high expectations for their soup dumplings that when they came out, I was a little disappointed.  Not to say they weren't good or anything, because they were but just overly hyped.  
The dumplings are small and succulent.  The drunken chicken was moist and full of alcohol. I don't think it's a 5 star restaurant but it's good.
The food tastes really good, but the price is too expensive.
Fantastic location and food. I heard you have to practice for 1 year before they let you prepare food for customers.